Now we're going to get into a big topic.
And this is something that XD is really
built around because it's just such
a useful concept.
And it's also something that is going
to be simpler than you might think.
And that's the actor model.
So the actor model is
a model of computation where
basically everything is an actor.
So what do we mean by an actor?
And again,
I'm going to show you just by drawing.
So let's pretend that
this circle is an actor.
And we'll even label it as Actor.
So an actor can do a few things.
First of all, the actor has a behavior.
And so,
this behavior determines what it does,
depending on which events it receives.
So, we could have this behavior, or
we could have a different behavior.
So, if we're considering this to be
a human actor, just like the example I
gave earlier, we could have an Asleep
behavior and an Awake behavior.
And we could transition
between these two behaviors.
So, event might come in, and
I'm going to label this as just
an arrow that comes into the actor.
And this event can just
be something like ALARM.
And so, this ALARM can cause the actor to
change its behavior from Asleep to Awake.
So actors can actually have
this internal state machine.
Or in other words, their behavior
can be represented by many things.
But one of the best things hopefully
you learn from this workshop is
that it's usually best to describe
behaviors in terms of state machines.
And so this actor can change its behavior
depending on an event coming in.
And like we learned, this changing
of behavior due to an event can
include things like updating its context
or performing some side effects.
So what actors can also do in
response to an event is the actors
themselves can send
events to other actors.
So I'm just gonna label this as AN_EVENT.
And we are gonna create
another actor over here with
the right stroke, so Another Actor.
Now, actors can only send events to
actors that they have reference to.
So this actor has a reference to another
actor, so it could send it an event.
However, let's say that we have
a third actor right over here.
Since this actor has no way of knowing
this, I'm just gonna call this Actor 3,
has no way of knowing that this Actor 3
exists, it's unable to send it an event.
Now what actors could also do is
they can spawn other actors and
basically create new actors.
So I'm gonna represent this by
just having a line over here where
this is an actor spawned
by this other actor.
And of course,
since this actor spawned that actor,
it can send events to it because
it has a reference to it.
Now depending on your implementation of
actors, actors can also send events back
to the parent's actor because it's like
the they're born with that information.
They know who their parent is so
they can send events back and forth.
One of the easiest ways to
conceptualize the actor
model is pretending that each actor
is a human just like you and me.
I'm talking to you and you could talk to
me, as long as you have contact with me.
For example, if you have my phone number
or email address or Twitter username,
you have a reference to me.
So you can send messages to me.
And you can also include,
for example, your email, and
I can reply to you via email because
now I have reference to you as well.
Another concept of actors is actors
each have their own local state.
And this state cannot be
directly read by other actors.
So everything is done via sending events.
And so with actors, if one actor wants
to read the state of another actor,
what typically happens, and
this is best represented in HTTP requests.
Is that this actor would
send a request like,
I want to get this part of data from you.
And after some async operation,
this actor might respond and
say, okay, here's the information.
Now you could also model publishing and
subscribing as implicit events.
So you could say that this actor
can subscribe to some part of
this other actor.
Which in reality is this actor
sending events to its subscribers
on some sort of regular interval or
whenever something changes.
So, in short, the actor model
is representing each entity in
your application as something
that you could send events to.
Something that could send events to
other actors it has reference to,
and something that can
also spawn its own actors.
And an actor also has its
own internal state which can
change depending on what
events it was sent.